# Problem Management
This is the chapter which will make you aware of how problem related to infrastructure can be handled and mitigated in efficient way.

 I am a kind of person, who don't believe in stories but believe in what is actually  happening/happen thing.And strongly believe living with a bunch of people all the time that they give more "black and white" picture then distorted thing with some colorful stories. It saves my time and their too.

 So, in broader sense, problem comes in bunch and go away with bunch, yep general rule of life. But, in BU, problem can be categorized in different form i.e genuine problem, created problem, arse saving problem, incompetency guard problem et al. Frankly I am not at all interested on others but the first one. Unfortunately you have to deal with others, whether you like it or not and need to take some really really drastic steps to eliminate other kinds of "cosmetic" problem from your life and focus on main problem.

 Now for instance, as I have had into the BU's infra for some organization ,so I can vouch, emergency can come once in a month or bimonthly and you can deal with it. But if it's started to come frequently than those interval, then two things should come to your mind. One, the infrastructure needs serious kind of look up in quick time but rigorous. Second, need to evaluate the guys are operating or managing on it. No other go I believe, you just can not sit on it for long. It might explode on some undesirable time and make you look fool. So, long story short, pro-activeness is highly desirable. We generally are good on re-activeness.

Now, when you manage a team,you need to split up things as important and urgent, everybody do something special. I would prefer to do the urgent or assign someone in the team, who I can believe accomplish the task without much fuss and the important thing has to be distributed with others along with proper eta. Sound familiar? bound to be! that's the way it works most of the places. Plus, on top of that I would preferably have someone to document the process if something new has come up. Being in charge of a team of any size, you need to understand whom to give what, pretty ordinary thing; easily figurable. By means, I need to convey that distributing the ownership between the members.

So, basically I make people accountable for what they are doing and also make sure they get due credit what they are doing. It will certainly boast their morale in turn bring more productivity and sense of responsibility. When you bestowed with that kind of honor, chances will be high to gain more than to loose.

Okay, different matrix has to taken into account of solving the problem related to infrastructure .I will nailed down to few ,absolute necessary one. Just trying to eliminate noise from the actual fact. I have had seen a bottleneck in problem solving place, that too many level of approval needs to such trivial and non significant job. Sometime it's really irritate me that, little bigger organization put so much layer which is not at all necessary to system work properly. And they create more noise ,which is quite distracting .As I said above ,few good tool will make the infrastructure stable along with some sensible folks. If the human is not trained enough ,it's the duty of the leader to pour in some good information into the human ,so they do not have any illusion to work on that environment and become productive in quick time. Although I have had seen most the "Manager" failed to do that in alarming way. They just do wrong thing for right reason.

I am pretty okay with few bumps, that's fine and that's alerts you way ahead of time ,so you can take precaution. But I am not sure how that can be measured ,because every situation is different and the way to solve the problem would be quite different too (although the basic rely same, solving the problem). Educating the team members is of ultimate importance. The more informed they are, more they perform well.



