# Monitoring Infrastructure
Building the infrastructure is fine, but we need to monitor it constantly for the status and its health. So, we can take a decision on the basis of that report. And sometime we will introduce some strategy to make a decision upon the status we received. Many enterprises deploy different kinds of tools to measure those statuses and take the decision out of those reports. But, at least a few them generate or prone to produce some false alarm and reports based on that. So, we need to eliminate those "false positive" from the actual reports to streamlined the decision-making process.

Let's get our discussion absolutely to the point, by which I mean, lets talk about some tools, which are deployed across the enterprises. As I believe and use and advocate to use free and open-source software everywhere, plus I am more accustomed to that pattern of open source; you can expect lots of suggestions based out of the information and hands-on things. On the side effect of these people has to have a clear cut idea of customizing the software according to their infrastructure's need. Now, how do you arrest the "false positives"?? There are methods available to distinguish the actual positive from the false one. One has to be keen enough to find the details and specifications aware, so it will be an easy thing to deduce the fact from the result. 

Now, what to monitor? I have had been an environment where I saw people monitor everything ( seeing those I conclude that they just don't understand what they need to know), and into some environment, where everything is very precious, which means they know; what exactly needed. In the second case, you are better off by eliminating lots of unnecessary noise. Knowing what you need is a big step, in every aspect of life. Likewise, in enterprise infrastructure monitoring; things to be monitored should very precisely be described and documented.

There is no hide and seek for my liking; I like Nagios a lot. Why? Partly because of its flexible nature and easy customization and modularity. Of course, great community support behind it. And I did lots of hand-on stuff with it for one of my engagement with a corporation. By which I came to know a lot of intricacies of it's working and liking and disliking. But as I said earlier that some of the tools are prone to the false alarm, and unfortunately Nagios is one of them. I personally , tried to figure out doing lots of checking by hand; because I was exposed to it, just to make sure that the result I am seeing is correct and coming from the right places.

Nagios can be built from scratch as per the requirement in hand. I did it, by compiling from the source, refrain from getting it by package manager of the particular OS. By doing so,  I came to know how I can fine-tune my built ( like every other open-source software build). But, going by the package manager route gives you an OS-dependent way of deploying it, which sometimes beneficial for the infrastructure, but a less flexible one. It's up to you, how you go about the job.

Let me get fair enough to other monitoring tools too. They are as good as Nagios, yep few of them; not all. Plus the overhead of configuring those tools requires you to invest a great deal of precious time to get it right. Am I sound too leaned towards Nagios?? Might be, but I can tell, Cacti is a wonderful tool, I had struggled a lot to get it going, but in the end, it was all satisfactory. 

But in the end, you have to have some sort of understanding about SNMP because the underlying protocol will be that for infrastructure monitoring. Understanding the OID and MIB does help greatly to decide what to do with the monitoring. 

