# Automation and Configuration Management
This is a kinda core part of infrastructure management in any form. Sooner or later time will come, when you wanted a few things to be get done automatically, without much supervision. Especially when the infrastructure is growing and complexity arise. We basically want to eliminate things that are redundant to operate. Because we need to concentrate on more volatile things within the infra more closely.

I know cron job do fine and most of the time is sufficient enough to get the thing done, but beyond certain points,we need to consider how to enhance and get thing done in the proper manner. Writing tools to do the job done was the norm in open system management, because it will allow you to do so, a rich set of inbuilt tools come along with it. I wrote and still do write whenever I got the chance to enhance. But having said that, the modern SCM (Software Configuration Managers) are quite smart (and I haven't had a hands-on thing with cfengine..heck), everything else is modern, even chef. I have had done a few things with puppet and salt. Like both of them. Both have pros and cons, like other software. And mind you, it does require some steep learning curve, but it will be all worth if you spend enough time to get the gory details of it or how it works internally. Most of the shops, even the cloud-based projects are heavily lean on it, because they understand the importance and flexibility it brings onto the table. You can attend and achieve so many things with minimal fuss and rigor. While you need to be cautious at times, to monitor it that it is doing the right job, what was intended. CI (Jenkins et al) can be your friend.

Puppet is written in ruby and very flexible, purely using OOPS concepts inside it. The noticeable downside would be the slow nature of work/processing. On the other hand, Saltstack is written in python, and quite flexible and extensible too. And performance-wise it will probably beat puppet. That is python's ability to interpret quickly. Anyway, you can choose whatever is your cup of tea, or the best bet for the particular environment. Now, a little catch, I should warn you, you need to be very conversant with those or have personnel at your disposal to do the job and troubleshooting if something goes wrong (sometimes it will certainly). So, you been exposed to the system, or the personnel exposed to those systems have to have much more insight to get things back in track.

I would propose, designate only those personnel involved in it, those who have an inclination towards it, but not to someone who wanted things done by it. As I said earlier it needs a little bit steep learning curve and understanding of internals too. Not everybody has that kind of inclination towards it. You need to identify the resource from your team, or budget permit hire only those who are deep into it.

There are plenty of SCM around free and proprietary. To name, Ansible is used in quite a few places and I heard it is done the job well (Again I do not have hands-on with it). Anyway, we need to consider the different aspects of the infrastructure requirement. What the present condition is? how it is operating? How it accomplishes the work done? Once we get a clear cut answer for those, then we can proceed to select the tool. Moreover, we need to evaluate the tool before we recommend the "Black Suit" wearing a guy . He might come up with something which might catch us off guard. So, try not to be in that position, get as many details about the product as possible. It will surely help if you have some use cases under your sleeves.  And it would be wonderful if we can make some use cases relate to the present environment with that tool.

People, in general, don't like changes, but we are trying to do a thing that will change the way the environment operates and perform. And we are trying to get the best out of it with some more effort. Not necessary all the time we come out winner, but we can make an effort that we can be winners most of the time. The prime effect would be two: one, technology will win and we get boosts in our confidence and feel valued, which is a very crucial and important aspect of infrastructure professionals. I have had seen and realized that once you feel truly valued in some setup, you can do better and helping out better with less conflict and ego. Now, you are in a position to do more and take more responsibility.

And yes, mentoring the other person next to you, will have long-lasting effects.I am not sure how that can be done, because different people use different strategies to get along. To me, I am very open and straight to everyone, few don't like, but they come to terms when they spend some time with me. Yep, that's I am. I believe being genuine to everyone is key, they feel confident about you. I have seen a few incompetent to play foul to save their arse and make thing looks rosy. If you sense it, bust it on them but.

Say, we want to change the configure file of the fleet of the webserver farms, and that consists of 350 servers. Doing that by hand would be ridiculous (assuming similar kinds of changes has to be made to all the servers) and time-consuming and error-prone too. So, to eliminate those cons we need to take advantage of SCM exposed to us. It just a matter of writing once and run everywhere thing. Means, you need to define in one place and agents will in from the master server/servers to get it to sync in quick time. Pretty neat and effortless (thinking in terms of writing a manual script and invoking it). And likewise, you can withdraw your applied changes in almost no time. So it is a big-time and effort saver. Most of enterprise including cloud premier operators embrace this kind of SCM to make their fleet of servers get a particular service at a specific time.

I believe all the SCM providers including puppet and Saltstack has a plethora of modules available for ready to use. Just get them from the internet and modify it according to your requirement. Those are all templet file  and few of them are really smart to assume the requirement too (specifically dependency related). Now, it is making our life easy and more productive. We get more chances to actually lean on the problem than thinking of something else. It is a boon to have that kind of software available for infrastructure management. And you can do many different task accomplish with it, with minimal fuss. I believe the syntax is pretty clear and precise, thanks to the pain taken by those authors to make life easy for others.

I have had seen people in infrastructure management doing automation for the sake of doing it. Why? there is plenty of reason, notably to show the vertical that they can do a better job and "quality" jobs; expertise in that skill, in turn, trying to say "elevate me" kinda statement. Most of those folks get the recipe from the internet (mostly from an unverified source, how do you verify that?) and plain modification. I have had seen they are not even bothering to see checksum of the download. If something creeps in, the entire infrastructure will be at stake. And also the poor practices of doing thing (yeah, I know the same result can be achieved from different ways..), but certainly not the inefficient way. There must be a proper and efficient way of handling it, for that before implementing that, a lot of tests have to be made. Most of the time and infrastructure missing those guidelines. Let me give you an example of this kind of practice. I was in with a big name, but they are trying to get a foot hole in IT and got a non-IT client. So, they have hired me to do a certain job. Now, while in that setup I have seen people use very poor practices on an open system. Instead of using key-exchange, they are using "sshpass"!!

The biggest problem here, the whole set rarely read the man page, instead they heavily rely on google. And they might have seen it some verified blogs and use that and nobody crosschecking. Now, if they are good enough they might have gleaned on the man page before doing all the nonsense. Let me give you an excerpt from the man page itself..

```
SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS

   First and foremost, users of sshpass should realize that ssh's insistence on only getting the password interactively is not without reason. It is close to impossible to securely store the password, and users of sshpass should consider whether ssh's public key authentication provides the same end-user experience, while involving less hassle and being more secure.

  The  -p  option should be considered the least secure of all of sshpass's options.  All system users can see the password in the command line with a simple "ps" command. Sshpass makes a minimal attempt to hide the password, but such attempts are doomed to create race conditions without actually solving the problem. Users of sshpass are encouraged to use one of the other password passing techniques, which are all more secure.

   In particular,  people writing programs that are meant to communicate the password programmatically are encouraged to use an anonymous pipe and pass the pipe's reading end to sshpass using the -d option.

```
So, you can see the heads upright? Does the environment had got some sort of binding to some sort of compliance to prohibit key-exchange? No. They just simply failed to realized the importance of it. See, the little things make a hell lot of difference.

Because I did open source development and install tweak many many thousand of software, so I have had the habit of reading the README or DOCUMENTATION file before I started to do anything with the software. It is always a good habit to read the important information beforehand and then jump onto it. It's help certainly. So, getting into that habit needs sometimes spend with it. Nowadays, most people are so accustomed to search engines,that they forgot the habit of reading the crucial piece. Because whenever they are in doubt, they just use the search engine to find the answer, I too do, but very very limited cases, not all the time, plus in very few specific places.
